#Setup

Hint: when myrent service and test downloaded ensure you run play eclipsify in a terminal in the project root folders before importing to Eclipse.

Download these three applications.

- [myrent-16](https://github.com/wit-ictskills-2016/myrent-16.git).
- [myrent-16-service](https://github.com/wit-ictskills-2016/myrent-16-service.git)
- [myrent-16-service-test](https://github.com/wit-ictskills-2016/myrent-16-service-test.git)

##myrent-16

MyRent-16 is an Android client. It has been refactored to consume an API from a database in which the primary key (id) is a Long type and is auto-generated at the server side.

This differs from previous MyRent version(s) where the id has been generated client-side.

The purpose of the lab is to assist in adapting your Twitter clone for use with MongoDB.

- MongoDB auto-generates its ids.
- These are String types.
- We are using Long types because the server (myrent-16-service) is a Play app.
- It will be necessary to modify your SQLite component to use String type ids. This is not dealt with in this lab.


##myrent-16-service

This is a Play app. It ships with a data.yml file. If you wish to make use of this it will be necessary to remove the comments in Bootstrap.java. 

Once downloaded change into its folder and run 

```
play run
```

If you wish to view the code in Eclipse then first run:

```

play eclipsify
```


##myrent-16-service-test


Download the app and import into Eclipse, first running play eclipsify.

Import the project into Eclipse.

Clean the project.

If there are any errors it may be necessary to import JUnit library.

- Select the project and in context menu: Build Path | Add Libraries.
- Select JUnit and proceed as prompted by wizard


Test as follows:

- Run the service.
- Select src/ResidenceTest.java, right click and run as JUnit Test.

The test should pass, indicated by a green progress bar.

In the following steps we shall identify the key changes made to the tester and the Android client to accommodate communicating with a database (where the id is auto-generated on the server).

