#Test using adb

To check that the record is correctly inserted into the database we shall use the Android Debug Bridge (adb) commandline tool. You should refer to the Appendix for instructions in the configuration and use of *adb*.

Run MyRentSQLite app and add a residence by clicking on the Add Residence button.

Switch to a terminal and execute the command:

```
adb shell
```
The response should be:

```
root@generic_x86_64:/ # 

```
Change directory as follows:

```
cd data/data

```
Check for the presence of our app:

```
ls -l
```

```
drwxr-x--x u0_a80   u0_a80  2016-07-15 10:57 sqlite.myrentsqlite

```
If, in Windows, you are unable to proceed further due to a permissions issue, then try the following as a solution:

- Open a windows command prompt as an administrator. You can do this by selecting the command prompt icon in the start menu and accessing the context menu.
- Then in the administrative command prompt run:

```
adb root
```

Change directory into *sqlite.myrentsqlite*.

```
cd sqlite.myrentsqlite
```
Check its contents:

```
ls -l

drwxrwx--x u0_a80   u0_a80            2016-07-15 10:57 cache
drwxrwx--x u0_a80   u0_a80            2016-07-15 10:57 code_cache
drwxrwx--x u0_a80   u0_a80            2016-07-15 10:57 databases
drwx------ u0_a80   u0_a80            2016-07-15 10:57 files

```
Change into databases folder and check the contents:

```
cd databases
ls -l
```
Here is typical output:
```
...
-rw-rw---- u0_a80   u0_a80      20480 2016-07-15 10:58 residences.db
-rw------- u0_a80   u0_a80      12824 2016-07-15 10:58 residences.db-journal
```
The database file *residences.db* is present. This name was assigned in the DbHelper class. We shall now inspect its contents. Run the following commands:

```
sqlite3 residences.db 

```  
The response should be something like the following:
```
SQLite version 3.8.10.2 2015-05-20 18:17:19
Enter ".help" for usage hints.
sqlite> 

```
Check what tables are present in the database:

```
.tables
```

In our case the response should be as follows:

```
android_metadata  tableResidences 
sqlite> 

```
We have added one Residence object record to the database. This can now be verified:

```
sqlite> select * from tableResidences;
```
```
efb14e04-0820-4cfc-9520-1f4c391d0974|52.253456,-7.187162

```

To exit sqlite run this command:
```
.exit
```
To exit adb run a similar command but without the period:

```
exit
```
Use the above technique to regularly check the database table(s) as you progressively develop the app.

Running **.exit** and **exit** in succession will return you to the terminal command prompt.

Official documentation:

- [SQLite command shell](https://www.sqlite.org/cli.html)
- [Android Debug Bridge](https://developer.android.com/studio/command-line/adb.html)