#Exercises

[1] Layouts

Clone this repository:

```
https://github.com/wit-ictskills-2016/android-linear-layout.git
```
Import into Android Studio and run.

Exercise the menu options and note the layout differences in the various screens (activities).

Experiment by making changes and observing results to the following:

- android:gravity
- android:layout_weight
- android:layout_width="match_parent"
- android:layout_height="wrap_content"


[2] Add an activity to the above repo (android-linear-layout) named Report. 

- Provide menu access, following same pattern as existing app. This is a worthwhile exercise as it will give you experience in composing an activity, menu layout, adding string resources and configuring the manifest file.

- As layout content add the solution in step 01 of Donation 03. This will result in the display of a single list entry in the activity.

[3] To obtain an idea of the extent and capability of TextView, briefly examine the official documentation page: [TextView](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/widget/TextView.html).


[4] Scan the official documentation for [Layouts](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/ui/declaring-layout.html), in particular so as to obtain an overview of Linear, Relative and ListView layouts, those that we shall mostly be using in this lab series.

[5] Setting listeners was introduced in the slide deck `A First Android Application` on slides numbers 27 and 28. Three different styles we mentioned. We have already seen how setting a listener explicitly in a resource file is implemented in the donation app. This is illustrated in the code extract here taken from the file `res/layout/activity_donate.xml` (donateButtonPressed).

```
  <Button
      android:id="@+id/donateButton"
      android:layout_width="wrap_content"
      android:layout_height="wrap_content"
      android:layout_alignParentBottom="true"
      android:layout_alignParentLeft="true"
      android:layout_marginBottom="15dp"
      android:onClick="donateButtonPressed"
      android:text="@string/donateButton" />

```
Create two branches in your android-linear-layout app, one named listener_1, the other listener_2. 

- Checkout out listener_1 branch.
- Implement the listener for donationButtonPressed using an anonymous class.
- Test, add and commit to your repo and push the new branch to your remote.
- Now check out listener_2 branch.
- Implement the listener using the listener interface.
- Test, add and commit to your repo and push the new branch to your remote.

